docs(weekly): add this week in databend 115 (#13280)
datafuselabs/databend: website/blog/2023-10-15-databend-weekly-115.md

date: 2023-10-15
slug: 2023-10-15-databend-weekly
cover_url: 'weekly/weekly-115.jpg'
image: 'weekly/weekly-115.jpg'
tags: [weekly]
description: "Stay up to date with the latest weekly developments on Databend!"
contributors:
  - name: akoshchiy
  - name: andylokandy
  - name: ariesdevil
  - name: b41sh
  - name: BohuTang
  - name: Chasen-Zhang
  - name: ct20000901
  - name: dantengsky
  - name: dependabot[bot]
  - name: Dousir9
  - name: drmingdrmer
  - name: everpcpc
  - name: flaneur2020
  - name: JackTan25
  - name: leiysky
  - name: lichuang
  - name: PsiACE
  - name: RinChanNOWWW
  - name: SkyFan2002
  - name: soyeric128
  - name: sundy-li
  - name: TCeason
  - name: Xuanwo
  - name: xudong963
  - name: youngsofun
  - name: zenus
  - name: zhang2014
  - name: ZhiHanZ
  - name: zhyass
authors:
  - name: PsiACE
    url: https://github.com/psiace
    image_url: https://github.com/psiace.png
---

[Databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend) is a modern cloud data warehouse, serving your massive-scale analytics needs at low cost and complexity. Open source alternative to Snowflake. Also available in the cloud: <https://app.databend.com> .

> ## What's On In Databend

Reviewer: What's New

> Stay connected with the latest news about Databend.

Reviewer: Stay informed about the latest features of Databend.

### AGGREGATING INDEX

Databend has recently introduced **AGGREGATING INDEX** to improve query performance, especially for aggregation queries involving `MIN`, `MAX`, and `SUM`. Aggregating Index leverage techniques like precomputing and storing query results separately to eliminate the need to scan the entire table, thus speeding up data retrieval.

In addition, this feature includes a refresh mechanism that allows you to update and persist the latest query results on demand, ensuring data accuracy and reliability by refreshing the results when needed. Databend recommends manually refreshing the aggregating index before executing relevant queries to retrieve the most up-to-date data; Databend Cloud supports auto-refreshing of aggregating index.

```sql
-- Create an aggregating index
CREATE AGGREGATING INDEX my_agg_index AS SELECT MIN(a), MAX(c) FROM agg;

-- Refresh the aggregating index
REFRESH AGGREGATING INDEX my_agg_index;
```

> The **AGGREGATING INDEX** requires upgrading to the Enterprise Edition. Please [contact the Databend team](https://www.databend.com/contact-us) for upgrade information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **AGGREGATING INDEX** requires Databend Enterprise Edition. Please [contact the Databend team](https://www.databend.com/contact-us) for upgrade information.
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources below:

- [Docs | AGGREGATING INDEX](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-commands/ddl/aggregating-index/)

## Code Corner

Discover some fascinating code snippets or projects that showcase our work or learning journey.

### Visualizing the MERGE INTO Pipeline

> Databend recently implemented support for the `MERGE INTO` statement to provide more comprehensive data maintenance capabilities. For those interested in how it works under the hood, check out the pipeline visualization of `MERGE INTO` below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Databend recently implemented the `MERGE INTO` statement to provide more comprehensive data management capabilities. For those interested in how it works under the hood, check out the pipeline visualization of `MERGE INTO` below.
```

|                                                                             |  If it includes 'computed', this section        |
|                                                                             |  of code will be executed, otherwise it won't   |
|                                                                             |                                                 |
|                                                                            -+-------------------------------------------------+
|
|
|
|        +------------------+            +-----------------------+        +-----------+
+------->|ResizeProcessor(1)+----------->|TableMutationAggregator+------->|CommitSink |
         +------------------+            +-----------------------+        +-----------+
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources below:

- [PR #13036 | chore: draw merge into pipeline](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/13036)

## Highlights

We have also made these improvements to Databend that we hope you will find helpful:

> - Added support for automatic recluster and compaction in `MERGE INTO`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- MERGE INTO now supports for automatic recluster and compaction.
```

> - SQLsmith now covers `DELETE`, `UPDATE`, `ALTER TABLE` and `CAST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SQLsmith now covers `DELETE`, `UPDATE`, `ALTER TABLE`, and `CAST`.
```

> - Added semi-structured data processing functions like `json_each` and `json_array_elements`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added semi-structured data processing functions `json_each` and `json_array_elements`.
```

> - Added time and date functions like `to_week_of_year` and `date_part`. See [Docs | Date & Time Functions](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-functions/datetime-functions) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added time and date functions `to_week_of_year` and `date_part`. See [Docs | Date & Time Functions](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-functions/datetime-functions) for details.
```
